Add mixer migration faq. (#8954)
istio/istio.io: content/en/faq/metrics-and-logs/mixer-migration.md

---

> title: How to migrate from Mixer based extensbility?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How do I migrate existing Mixer functionality?
```

weight: 30
---

> Mixer has been [removed from Istio since 1.8 release](/news/releases/1.8.x/announcing-1.8/#deprecations).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mixer was [removed in the 1.8 Istio release](/news/releases/1.8.x/announcing-1.8/#deprecations).
```

> Migration is needed if you are still rely on Mixer built-in adapter or out-of-process adapter for mesh extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migration is needed if you still rely on Mixer's built-in adapters or any out-of-process adapters for mesh extension.
```

For built-in adapters, several alternatives are provided:

> * `Prometheus` and `Stackdriver` adapters are replaced by telemetry v2 and implemented as [proxy extensions](/docs/reference/config/proxy_extensions/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Prometheus` and `Stackdriver` integrations are implemented as [proxy extensions](/docs/reference/config/proxy_extensions/).
```

>   Customization of telemetry generated by these two extensions can be achieved via [request classification](/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/classify-metrics/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Customization of telemetry generated by these two extensions can be achieved via [request classification](/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/classify-metrics/) and [Prometheus metrics customization](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/customize-metrics/).
```

> * `Memquota` and `Redisquota` adapters are replaced by the [Envoy based rate limiting solution](/docs/tasks/policy-enforcement/rate-limit/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Global and Local Rate-Limiting (`memquota` and `redisquota` adapters) functionality is provided through the [Envoy-based rate-limiting solution](/docs/tasks/policy-enforcement/rate-limit/).
```

> * `OPA` adapter is replaced by the [Envoy ext-authz based solution](/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-custom/), which supports [integration with OPA policy agent](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/envoy-authorization/).

Reviewer: Do we need to mention the new Authorization Policy (1.9 experimental) here?

Author: That is what `/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-custom/` linked to.

Reviewer: Roger. I only saw the openpolicyagent.org link I guess.

> For out-of-process adapter, Wasm based extension can be used. Please refer to the guides about [Wasm module development](https://github.com/istio-ecosystem/wasm-extensions/blob/master/doc/write-a-wasm-extension-with-cpp.md) and [distribution](/docs/ops/configuration/extensibility/wasm-module-distribution/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For custom out-of-process adapters, migration to Wasm-based extensions is strongly encouraged. Please refer to the guides on [Wasm module development](https://github.com/istio-ecosystem/wasm-extensions/blob/master/doc/write-a-wasm-extension-with-cpp.md) and [extension distribution](/docs/ops/configuration/extensibility/wasm-module-distribution/).
```

> For out-of-process adapter, Wasm based extension can be used. Please refer to the guides about [Wasm module development](https://github.com/istio-ecosystem/wasm-extensions/blob/master/doc/write-a-wasm-extension-with-cpp.md) and [distribution](/docs/ops/configuration/extensibility/wasm-module-distribution/).

Reviewer: Should we also point users to the "how to run mixer with newer Istio releases" wiki doc you made earlier ?

Author: Added. I also wondered whether we should add this item here or not when created this PR, and left it off because of maintenance concern. I added it with caveat, so that user would not have high expectation about this temporary solution.

> For custom out-of-process adapters, migration to Wasm-based extensions is strongly encouraged. Please refer to the guides on [Wasm module development](https://github.com/istio-ecosystem/wasm-extensions/blob/master/doc/write-a-wasm-extension-with-cpp.md) and [extension distribution](/docs/ops/configuration/extensibility/wasm-module-distribution/). If you need to upgrade Istio while migrating to Wasm-based extensions, as a temporary solution, you can [enable Envoy ext-authz and gRPC access log API support in Mixer](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Enabling-Envoy-Authorization-Service-and-gRPC-Access-Log-Service-With-Mixer). Note this temporary solution is not battle-tested and will unlikely get patch fixes, since it is only available on Istio 1.7 branch which is out of support window after Feb 2021.

Reviewer 2: Is this Istio 1.7 piece worth mentioning?  We are towards end of Feb now.

Reviewer 2: Or maybe this is where it is not super clear.  Are you saying users should stay on Istio 1.7 or prior to 1.7 till out of process adapters are fully migrated to Wasm-based extensions?

Author: Updated. The temporary solution is to allow user to upgrade to post 1.7 Istio, while still using 1.7 Mixer for adapters, so that it can buy some time for their migration.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the clarification @bianpengyuan !

> For custom out-of-process adapters, migration to Wasm-based extensions is strongly encouraged. Please refer to the guides on [Wasm module development](https://github.com/istio-ecosystem/wasm-extensions/blob/master/doc/write-a-wasm-extension-with-cpp.md) and [extension distribution](/docs/ops/configuration/extensibility/wasm-module-distribution/). As a temporary solution, you can [enable Envoy ext-authz and gRPC access log API support in Mixer](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Enabling-Envoy-Authorization-Service-and-gRPC-Access-Log-Service-With-Mixer), which allows you to upgrade Istio to post 1.7 versions while still use 1.7 Mixer with out-of-process adapters. This will give you more time to migrate to Wasm-based extensions instead of stuck on Istio 1.7 due to the migration. Note this temporary solution is not battle-tested and will unlikely get patch fixes, since it is only available on Istio 1.7 branch which is out of support window after Feb 2021.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For custom out-of-process adapters, migration to Wasm-based extensions is strongly encouraged. Please refer to the guides on [Wasm module development](https://github.com/istio-ecosystem/wasm-extensions/blob/master/doc/write-a-wasm-extension-with-cpp.md) and [extension distribution](/docs/ops/configuration/extensibility/wasm-module-distribution/). As a temporary solution, you can [enable Envoy ext-authz and gRPC access log API support in Mixer](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Enabling-Envoy-Authorization-Service-and-gRPC-Access-Log-Service-With-Mixer), which allows you to upgrade Istio to post 1.7 versions while still using 1.7 Mixer with out-of-process adapters. This will give you more time to migrate to Wasm-based extensions. Note this temporary solution is not battle-tested and will unlikely get patch fixes, since it is only available on the Istio 1.7 branch which is out of support window after Feb 2021.
```
